Hey guys, welcome back.
All right, we're almost done rounding out our profile,
but before we do, we have to finish up with
our bio and then with our CTA or call to action.
Now, "What is the bio?", you might ask.
Well, it's the plain text that you see below your account
name on your profile page, can't really miss it.
Now, what I'm calling the bio is centrally the lines
between your account name and your call to action,
which we'll get into in a lecture or two, but your call
to action is always like the last two lines in your bio.
Now, technically, you enter your
call to action in your bio field,
but again, I'm just going to address them separately,
because they are two different parts of your account,
two different strategies.
So what is the game plan with your bio?
Well, like anything,
first take a second to bounce around some of your
favorite pages and see what other people do to get ideas.
Once you're done with that, then let's settle
on one of two different strategies.
Now, these are two strategies
I've personally seen work, and I wouldn't really consider
your page optimized unless you did one of them.
You will see plenty of people
out there that don't do either,
but again, I wouldn't call them optimized.
So here it is. You should either do - what
I call, at least - a 1-2 bio, or do a list bio.
Now, a 1-2 bio is when you have two
sentences with really nothing fancy in them.
Generally, it's just like simple, punchy, sentences.
Now, why would you do it this way?
Well, Instagram's going to limit you to 150 characters,
so having a thick two liner can actually look pretty
aesthetic and also works for attention spans, because
you read it, it's one sentence, two sentences,
it's not a paragraph, and you kind of move on.
People generally like that.
It's also great because you can make it one, the first
sentence, what you are, and then the second
sentence is why you matter or what
you're going to deliver in the account.
So here's an example of a two liner, this is Kettle & Fire.
We'll reference this account occasionally,
because I'm completely biased and this is the company
of my co-instructor in the Growth Marketer course.
But anyway, he does a good job with his Instagram account.
Now, the other style is what we call a list bio,
and that's where you see bulleted or just plain lists.
The idea here is that you can package like
2-4 things to hit the reader with, and putting
them in a checklist style like that is a great way to get it read and get it understood. Visually, it's also something that stands out.
So let's look at an account, another one we'll
see quite often, it's called Millionaire Mentor.
Here you can see that there's two bullet
points and they've separated them by a line.
Now, that effectively extends the bio down and
then makes it more prominent on the page.
Now, one thing you need to understand about bios
and users on Instagram is that in general it's that,
if we were going to, say, look at Instagram users' eyes
as they land on a profile page, in marketing you
call this like a heat map, where they
look would look kind of like this.
First, they'd look at your profile photo,
then they'd look at your account name,
then they'd skip to the bottom of your bio to look at
your link, and then they'd quickly scan your images.
Now, without fail, that's almost
always how they look at your page.
If you go with a 1-2 bio, then you're essentially saying,
"Hey, that's fine to skip over this information
and just go straight to my photos."
Now, in that case, it emphasizes other parts
of your profile, and that's perfectly fine.
Honestly, it's up to you how you
want users to interact with your page.
Some people just want to focus on their photos, because
that's the best thing and their bio is not extremely interesting.
This will happen with a lot of business accounts
especially. List bios, on the other hand, push the photos
down on old phones and then force you to at least glance at the bio, because you kind of to swipe down to see the full photo.
Now, so, are these the only ways
you could template your bio?
God, no.
There are plenty of other ways you can do this, and
it's just that these are the two that seem to work
the best and actually have data to back them up.
One of my favorite quirky styles actually
is the center aligned profile.
No one does this.
But you can, you can actually center align your text, and
it looks ridiculous, and you could totally understand
why virtually no one does it.
Yes, it sticks out, but it's incredibly annoying and
actually it means you can display less information.
Everything else is left aligned.
Now, if you're thinking, "Wow, all this talk about two
sentences on your profile page," you're not wrong.
Instagram is just weird in that they give you virtually
no control over your pages, so tiny little differences
like that actually end up being the
differentiating factor in your accounts.
Now, with Twitter, you know, for instance, you can put a
giant cover photo or whatever you want, it's a huge photo.
Lots of things in it.
Instagram, on the other hand, no, you literally just
get a couple lines and they have to be plain text.
Now, that leads me to one pro tip that I can say is
quite useful, and that is emojis are not just for kids,
they're also for brands.
Now, it might be annoying when someone texts you four emojis in a row in a sentence or just substitutes emojis for the words.
Personally, it makes me wonder about what we've done to the youngest generation and how we turned them into monsters.
But in Instagram, because you are so restricted in
expression, they can actually make a big difference.
Now, you'll notice with some of the biggest accounts, they
all use emojis, regardless of how serious the account is.
And why is that?
Well, because, number one, it gives your profile some
color and some life, and that makes it stand out.
Remember, we're stuck to two sentences that's plain text.
There's no color in that.
Number two is that it kind of goes with the general
open and friendly and fun vibe of Instagram. Putting
emojis in an academic term paper,
that's bold, also stupid.
Putting them on Instagram, pretty smart.
Now, here's my take on how to use emojis effectively.
Make sure that you're following the Goldilocks
rule, and that's not too many and
not too few. If you have too few,
it kind of looks like mid-sentence you rediscovered
what they were, and if you have too many, that makes
you just look like a Japanese teenager.
Let's look at Gary Vee, Gary Vaynerchuk,
and you can see his account.
Now, look at how he does emojis.
He just does one per line and
each has a different dominant color.
Now, not sure what an orb has to do with investing, but he's given each line some character by putting some color in there.
This guy's entire job is just to yell at people and,
look at how friendly he looks with his emojis.
There you go.
Also, nice list bio, bro.
So that's it for the syntax and the what is what.
Go with either a 1-2 style or a list bio style, and
we'll cover in the next lecture how
you actually do that in Instagram.
There's a right way and kind of a wrong way.
Use emojis in moderation.
They really spice up your profile and give
color to an otherwise colorless block of blah.
If you want, and this works pretty well, is to use your
emojis like they're reactions to each sentence.
You know, "millionaire at 16," and you put like the wow face,
"living in my favorite location," then you put the palm tree,
"message me for business," and then, you know,
you can put like a bag of dollars because it implies
corruption and that you can be bought.
Alright, guys. Next up, since we've covered how to
talk in your bio, let's go over what you should say.
See you then.